<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV: A Hurried Trip Around the World</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Hurried Trip Around the World</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>I have not the space to give a detailed account of this trip around the world. After a pleasant voyage on the steamship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Minnesota</i> we were given in Japan the same warm welcome that we had always had there, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft and I were entertained at the Shiba Detached Palace, one of the Imperial residences. We lunched with the Emperor and also with Prince Fushimi, and we met the admirals and the generals who had won such distinction in the Russo-Japanese War. These included Admiral Togo and Field Marshal Prince Oyama. It was explained to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft by the Court Chamberlain that we were regarded as personal guests of the Emperor. Marquis Saionji was then Premier, but Prince Katsura, whom he had succeeded and who was our old friend, was still powerful in the councils. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft held a number of interesting and useful interviews with these statesmen of Japan, and also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Count Hayashi, and with Marquis Terauchi, the Minister of War, who has now become Governor of Korea. He was able, from what they told him, to understand the attitude of Japan toward the United States, and to feel confident of her wish to remain in bonds of amity with us. At a dinner in Tokyo, given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft made a speech in which he pointed out the absurdity of a war between Japan and the United States, and showed how the true interests of both nations required a strengthening of the bonds of friendship between them. This speech attracted much attention throughout the Orient and was cabled back to the United States as an expression of the Administration on the subject. The Japanese residents of Yokohama presented to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft and me on this visit a very handsome silver tea set.</p>
			<p>Our course took us by way of Shanghai and we stopped there for just one busy day. In the morning <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft dedicated a Young Men’s Christian Association building which had just been constructed and to the cost of which a number of Chinese Mandarins, though not Christians, had made substantial contribution. The afternoon was devoted to shopping and to a most elaborate and picturesque reception and tea which was given for us by the Chinese guilds of the city. At this tea I was presented with a very curious and interesting bowl of Chinese silver which is among my most valued possessions. In the evening a great banquet was given by the leading citizens of Shanghai at the Astor Hotel, where provision was made for the ladies to hear the speaking from a platform erected at one end of the room. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft made a speech on the subject of the relations of the United States to the development of China, which was long remembered as a succinct and forcible presentation of the policy of the United States toward that country, then in an interesting stage of its awakening from a long lethargy.</p>
			<p>In Manila, at the formal opening of the first Assembly, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft laid down the purposes of the Administration in the passage of the Philippine Act, plainly saying to the Philippine people that independence was not near at hand, and that it could only come after a period of earnest effort on their part to fit themselves for complete self-government. His candour and frankness did not please many of the Assembly, but his view has always been that the only way in which to deal with the Filipino people is to tell them the exact truth, unpalatable though it may be, and to fulfil promises with the greatest care. Filipinos may be very lax in discharging the full measure of their own assurances, but the way to maintain influence over them is to pursue a policy of clear and candid statement, full performance and exact justice. They are prone to accept every declaration in the same sense in which they would like to construe it, and the utmost care must be taken to prevent their being misled. Demagoguery with them is likely to be most pernicious in its ultimate results.</p>
			<p>During this visit we were the guests of Governor-General Smith at Malacañan Palace and I experienced a pleasant renewal of old impressions and sensations. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W.</abbr> Cameron Forbes, who succeeded Governor Smith, was then Secretary of Commerce and Police and, in this capacity, was in charge of Public Works. He had built for himself at Baguio a fine country residence which he called “Topside,” a name which fits it exactly, since it stands, literally, at the “topside” of the island of Luzon, at an elevation of more than five thousand feet, and overlooks the broadest and most colourful stretch of mountain scenery imaginable. We visited <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Forbes at “Topside” and were able to see for the first time the splendid achievements in the development of the summer capital which I anticipated in Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IX</span>. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft assured an enthusiastic enquirer that he was not surprised at the magnificence of the Benguet Road because he had authorised the expenditure of a sufficient amount to produce something unusual, and that he would, indeed, have been surprised if it hadn’t been done. But he had to confess to a little surprise at the improvement of the town of Baguio. The difference was so great that it was almost impossible to recognise the place as the site of the ragged little Igorrote village where I had spent such pleasant and “uncivilised” days just before my husband’s inauguration as the first governor of the Philippines.</p>
			<p>It would be useless for me to attempt to detail the thousand and one events of this visit to Manila. Upon our arrival we were handed a printed schedule of dinners, luncheons, teas, receptions, balls, meetings, celebrations, trips of inspection, and business conferences which we had to do our best to carry out. Fortunately provision was made for a few hours of rest which could be used for other things when we got behind with the programme.</p>
			<p>On a day in November, when blue Manila Bay lay sparkling in the sun, we set sail for Vladivostok on the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.S.S.</abbr> <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Rainbow</i>, flying the flag of Admiral Hemphill, and convoyed by two other naval vessels. The most amusing incident of this trip, which was quite a tempestuous one, was the gradual freezing up of our Filipino orchestra. They left Manila clad in natty white uniforms, responding with enthusiasm to the strains of the many bands on shore and on the fleet of harbor launches which accompanied us down the bay. They played for us at dinner that night and gave a concert on deck the next day, but then began the rapid descent of the mercury in the thermometers and the consequent undoing of our tropical musicians. They first changed into heavy blue uniforms and tried their best to look comfortable. Then they put on their overcoats and kept them on. Finally they deserted the deck altogether and their rather disconnected strains came up to us through a partly open hatch just over the engine room. When we reached the forbidding harbour of Vladivostok, where the temperature stood below zero, the poor bugler was so thoroughly cold that he couldn’t adjust his lips to his bugle to pipe distinguished visitors aboard. Our party on this trip around the world was small, including only my son Charlie, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft’s secretary, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fred <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr> Carpenter, General Clarence <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R.</abbr> Edwards, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Martin Egan and two other newspaper correspondents.</p>
			<p>Shortly before we reached Vladivostok there had been a mutiny on one of the torpedo boats in the harbour, and a woman anarchist had induced the crew to take the boat out into the stream and raise the red flag. This outbreak was suppressed with a heavy hand, and a number of those suspected of complicity in the plot were arrested. As the Governor had power of life and death over them it was assumed that the extreme penalty was visited on some of them at least, but no publicity was given to the proceedings. The effect of the tragedy upon our arrival, however, was marked. The town was in a most unquiet state and there were vague rumours of danger to be met on every hand. We were not permitted to go ashore without a heavy guard of bristling Cossacks, and everywhere we went we were under the closest and most careful protection. It was most exciting, though in the midst of the cordial hospitality of our Russian hosts we could not feel that there was the slightest cause for apprehension. As soon as we dropped anchor in the harbour we were welcomed to Vladivostok by the Governor and General Commanding. He assigned Prince Bariatinski, Colonel of a regiment stationed at Vladivostok, to act as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft’s aide during our stay, and from Saturday until Tuesday he and the Princess, both of whom spoke English, were with us constantly, adding much to our enjoyment. Our visit concluded with a dinner and ball given by the Governor, and the next morning we bade goodbye to the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Rainbow</i> and Admiral Hemphill and made our way, surrounded by Cossack guards, to the railway station where the train waited to start on its twelve days’ trip across Siberia. The government provided us with a large private car of the armoured variety which contained a number of compartments that were fully as spacious and comfortable as an average steamship cabin and we settled ourselves in them quite as we would have done on a trans-Pacific liner.</p>
			<p>The trip across Siberia is exceedingly interesting. One anticipates endless monotony, but only the landscape lacks variety. For days together the train runs along through a country which looks exactly like South Dakota or Nebraska and which is interesting only in its wonderful possibilities. It is one of the world’s open spaces, undeveloped but capable of producing anything. I had always imagined Siberia as a country filled with sadness and I expected it to depress me, but it arouses no such feeling. We met trainload after trainload of happy Russian colonists on their way to the new settlements, and at all the well built stations along the way we saw a great number of sturdy peasant farmers and their families who looked thoroughly comfortable and contented. We whiled away the hours with bridge and books, and, though the train never made more than two or three stops a day, the time passed quickly. Throughout the journey our car was guarded by stalwart Russian soldiers in most picturesque uniforms, stationed on both platforms, and each time the train stopped this guard was changed with considerable ceremony. Also at every station near an army post <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft was greeted by the Commander of the District with strict military form, all of which added colour and interest to the journey.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willard <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">D.</abbr> Straight, then United States Consul at Mukden, met us at Vladivostok with plans for our reception at Mukden. When we arrived there we were welcomed by a company of Chinese soldiers dressed in the old Mongolian custom, and by a squadron of Cossacks. We were hurried in a carriage behind two fast trotting Orloff horses to a hotel where all the consuls assembled greeted us with cakes, champagne and very short speeches. There was considerable excitement among the consuls with regard to the toasts to be drunk and the order of precedence in which the rulers of the different countries were to be named, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Straight was diplomatic enough to mention every proper name in right order and the result was a round of congratulation and merriment. In the meantime the leisurely and accommodating train was waiting, so we hurried back to the station at the terrific pace usual to the Russian with his beautiful horses. No people not inherently fine could ever produce the kind of horses one sees in Russia. And the Russians love them. I can think of nothing more pleasing than the picture of a great, shaggy, gruff-voiced Russian coachman on the box of his carriage or droshky, gently urging his well-kept horse on to his best speed in terms of endearment. “On, Little Brother!” says he.</p>
			<p>At Moscow we were right royally entertained by the Governor-General of the city who did everything possible to make our visit memorable. We arrived late Saturday night and on Sunday the Kremlin was opened for our especial benefit and we were given full opportunity to see every part of that ancient and interesting home of Russian autocracy with all its collections of priceless treasures. A hurried round of entertainments, which included a special ballet performance at the Opera, ended with a dinner given by the Governor-General, and we left on the midnight train for <abbr>St.</abbr> Petersburg. We had not been there more than an hour or so the next morning when we received a telegram announcing that a woman Nihilist had thrown a bomb at the Governor’s sleigh which had exploded under the horses, killing them and the coachman and throwing the Governor and his aide backward into the snow unharmed. As these gentlemen had both been very kind to us it brought home in a startling way the danger that attends high position in Russia.</p>
			<p>In <abbr>St.</abbr> Petersburg we dined with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> Iswolski and Madame Iswolski, and with them received the Diplomatic Corps. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft and General Edwards had an audience with the Czar and attended the annual Saint’s day celebration of a famous regiment numbering about 3,200, no man of which measures less than six feet two. They were also present at a luncheon which the Czar gave to the officers of this regiment at the Czar-KoeSelo Palace. In the Czar’s suite there were two or three gentlemen who remembered <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft’s father as Minister to Russia, so he very greatly enjoyed the experience of meeting them.</p>
			<p>Our visit was a hurried one, and after a stay of three days we left for Berlin. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roosevelt and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Root were not disposed to have <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft visit any of the courts of Europe except at <abbr>St.</abbr> Petersburg and that only for the purpose of conveying his grateful acknowledgment of the courtesies shown us in our long trip across Siberia. Nor in the state of his mother’s health, which we knew to be precarious, was he disposed to accept the invitations which he received from the German Emperor, the King of Belgium, the President of France and others, to visit their countries and become their guest. At Berlin we had just time to dine with the American Ambassador and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Tower, and to meet a few American friends whom they had invited in, then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft and the other members of the party went to Hamburg to take the Steamship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">General Grant</i> at that port, while I, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Post Wheeler, rushed down to Paris to do a few hours’ shopping, planning to join the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Grant</i> at Boulogne the next evening. In the meantime a terrible storm began to rage along the coast, and when we reached Boulogne there was some question about our being able to get to the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Grant</i> which lay at anchor just outside the breakwater. However, we boarded the little tender and she started for the very wild looking open channel. She had no sooner struck the heavy seas before she had broken her rudder and was being buffeted about in a really terrifying manner. We managed in some way to get back inside the breakwater where some repairs were made, then we started out again. We repeated this performance several times, listening meanwhile to generally voiced predictions that nothing on earth could save us from going to the bottom, and, although it was only nine o’clock in the evening when we boarded the little vessel, it was four o’clock in the morning before she came alongside the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Grant</i> and discharged her dilapidated and exhausted passengers.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft had waited up for us and had seen the tender come out of the harbour and go back, and, assuming from what was told him that no attempt would be made to transfer the passengers before morning, he went to bed. When I got aboard the steamer, filled with excitement over the dangers through which I had passed, and found him peacefully sleeping in his cabin, I declined to accept any explanation. A French sub-prefect, who had been sent out by the Minister of the Interior of France with greetings and compliments, and who had come in his full regimentals with a cocked hat, was waiting to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft and I was cruel enough to insist that he should get up and receive him. Throwing a long fur coat over his pajamas the Secretary of War of the United States walked out into the salon to meet the polite representative of the politest of peoples, but after a grave exchange of formal salutations the situation proved too much for their gravity. They burst out laughing at each other, to the immense enjoyment of the bystanders, and the gloom of the wee sma’ hour was lifted.</p>
			<p>When we touched at Plymouth that afternoon we received a despatch announcing the death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft’s mother. The funeral took place in Cincinnati, at the home of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Charles Taft, several days before we could reach New York.</p>
			<p>On our return to the United States we found that my husband’s rivals for the Republican nomination had been making great headway. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roosevelt was quite impatient at the loss of ground that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft’s candidacy had suffered and he urged him to take a more active interest in the situation. He insisted that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft should change the subject of a speech which he had agreed to deliver in Boston from the Philippine problem to a discussion of the financial situation which was then acute after the depression which had taken place during our absence. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roosevelt’s forcible expression was that the business and political public had no more interest in the Philippines than in the subject of “nature faking.”</p>
			<p>I cannot go into the details of the preliminary convention fight. My husband’s brother Charles devoted a full year to it, established headquarters in Ohio and Washington, and bore the brunt of the contest. The afternoon of the convention when the voting came, we all assembled at my husband’s office in the War Department and received the news over the telephone as it came in. I have a series of photographs, taken by a friend, of the expressions on my husband’s face as the results of the voting were being announced. Soon after the nomination was made, on the first of July <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft resigned from the Cabinet, and we established ourselves at Hot Springs, Virginia, where he spent some weeks preparing his address of acceptance. This he submitted to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roosevelt and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Root before he went to Cincinnati to deliver it. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Charles Taft made elaborate preparations to receive and entertain the Committee of Announcement, and on a platform in front of his fine old house, in Pike Street, on one of the hottest days of the summer, my husband delivered his acceptance. We then returned to Hot Springs and spent another month in preparation for the campaign. From Hot Springs we went to Middle Bass Island on Lake Erie to spend a week or more there. We then went to Cincinnati. Upon this latter trip <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft made a good many speeches from the platform of our car. In September <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bryan’s campaign looked very hopeful. The opposition of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gompers and organised labour seemed formidable. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft determined to meet this issue fully and frankly. He was attacked because he had delivered a number of labour decisions supposed to be against the interest of labour. He had sent to jail, for six months, the chief lieutenant of Debs in the Debs railway rebellion of 1894, breaking it up in Cincinnati and the vicinity. He did not apologise in any way for the action he had taken. A meeting of the railway trade organisations was called in Chicago at Orchestra Hall, and there he explained his action, defended it, and avowed that were the same questions presented to him again, he would do the same thing he had done, and that he had no excuses to offer. From that point he made a long trip in the West, upon which I did not accompany him. I remained in Cincinnati with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Charles Taft and my sister <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Anderson. It was the first political campaign in which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taft was a candidate before the people. The reports that came indicated that he had lost his voice, and I was greatly concerned lest he might break down in his strenuous labours and new experience. The ups and downs of such a campaign, the prophecies, the hopes, the fears aroused by favourable and opposing newspapers were all new and trying to me, and in a way I think I was under as great a nervous strain as my husband was, without the steadying help of the hardest kind of work. However as the campaign drew near to a close, the Republican confidence grew stronger and stronger, so when we were assembled finally under the hospitable roof of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Charles Taft, with a company of friends to receive the dispatches on election night, the news of the great success that came did not surprise us.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
